---
permalink: /projectwork/artifact-2/
title: "Data Structures and Algorithms"
---

## Narrative

This artifact is a Java based program written to mimic a zoo authentication system.  As most programs, the authentication system is run in a console window.  The console has a prompt to enter username.  The next prompt is to enter a password.  If the username and password are correct, it will greet the user based on their role.  If you are an admin, it will greet you with a “Hello, Admin!” and give a brief description of your job duties.  The original artifact was created as an assignment in the IT-145 Foundation in Application Development course.  It was created in August of 2018.

I believe this artifact fits well in the algorithm and data structures category.  The artifact is based on an authentication system for a zoo.  The algorithm is added to create a secure username and password authentication method.  I selected this artifact because of its potential for using a secure password to gain access to the program.  The program by itself is not very difficult but adding and understanding the secure login method is what makes it fit within this category.  Understanding how to manipulate and leverage the secure authentication showcased my ability to use an external algorithm.  The original program had 5 usernames and 3 roles associated with the zoo.  The artifact was improved by expanding this to 10 usernames and 6 roles associated with the zoo.  The usernames and passwords are contained in a credentials file embedded in the artifact.  This file was modified to add the additional 5 usernames, passwords, and zoo roles.  A separate Java program contains the MD5 hash algorithm to secure the username password.  The artifact makes a call to this MD5 hash algorithm to validate the password.  This is a layer of security utilizing an external algorithm.

The original list of enhancements for this artifact were accomplished.  The course objectives were met by increasing the usefulness and expanding upon the original design of the program.  All items listed to update or modify were accomplished.  Increasing the number of users to 10, increasing the zoo roles to 6, and the MD5 hash algorithm were all completed as designed.  Cleaning up the annotations and spacing in the code was not part of the original scope but needed to be done after doing a code review.

The process of enhancing and modifying the artifact was a bit challenging.  I had to determine the correct credentials file to modify.  When the program ported to my home computer IDE, it created a duplicate copy of the credentials file.  I had to learn through the debugging process, which file was the correct one and delete the duplicate.  Once I worked through this issue, adding the additional usernames and passwords was not difficult.  Adding the additional roles required adding a new text file for each role.  This was easy enough by making a copy of an original role and modifying it to fit the new role greeting and description.  I learned to lean on the debugging process to find issues in the program.  As mentioned above, the debugging process was a great help in troubleshooting the duplicate credentials file.  I did face a significant challenge which took me several days to figure out.  The credentials file contained not only the username and password, but also needed the MD5 hash key.  At first, I was bit stumped on why my passwords were not working with the algorithm.  No matter what I put in for a password, it would fail every time.  Once I did a bit of research, I found a text to MD5 hash converter.  This allowed me to take the text password and convert it to MD5 hash encryption.  It worked great and all the logins worked as expected.  I really enjoyed learning the MD5 hash encryption and algorithm.  I am not sure if I will use in the future, but it was fun working with it to make the login more secure.

## Project Link
[Artifact 2 Project](https://github.com/leeyates71/leeyates71.github.io/tree/master/_projectwork/zooauthenticator){:target="_blank" .btn .btn--primary}
