---
permalink: /projectwork/artifact-3/
title: "Databases"
---
## MongoDB

## Enhancement Three Narrative

  This artifact is a Python based program written to create a RESTful API interface to a backend MongoDB database.  This program is run from a console to start the RESTful API interface.  The commands in the RESTful API program can be run from another console or a web explorer.  The API has the CRUD functions of create, read, update, and delete.  All of the CRUD commands can modify the MongoDB database.  The program also has an advanced function to pull the data for all companies in the same industry.  This returns a report on the top 5 stocks in the given industry.  The original artifact was created as an assignment in the CS-340 Client Server Development course.  It was created in December of 2019.
  I believe this artifact fits well in the databases category.  The artifact is based on RESTful API frontend for a MongoDB backend database.  The MongoDB database contains the stock information for a group of companies across many industries and countries.  I selected this artifact because it showcases skills and abilities in multiple areas.  It allows me to demonstrate my ability to use a client to interface with a database and use that client to manipulate the data in the database.  This artifact also allows me to showcase the use of pipeline aggregation.  Using these pipelines to aggregate the results into data that can be displayed on the screen shows the ability to work with complex and multi-layered concepts.  The artifact was improved by adding 2 additional advanced functions to the RESTful API artifact.  The original artifact contained the CRUD functions and the advanced function of the industry report.  I chose to add a country report and a company report.  These functions use pipeline aggregation.  The country report has 2 layers of pipeline aggregation like the industry report.  It allows the user to enter a country and the report will be a summary of the top 5 companies in that country.  The company report has 1 pipeline aggregation.  It allows the user to enter a company and the report will be a summary of that company.
	The original list of enhancements for this artifact were accomplished.  The course objectives were met by expanding upon the design of the original program.  The additional features were advanced functions which added to the complexity of the program.  All items listed to modify, or update were completed successfully.  Adding the 2 additional advanced reports were completed as designed.  As I found in the first 2 artifacts, cleaning up the annotations and spacing in the code was not part of the original scope but needed to be cleaned up after performing the code review in week 2.
	The process of making the enhancements and additions to this artifact was a challenge.  The first 2 artifacts were in Java, while this artifact is in Python.  The change from one programming language to another added a bit of complexity.  This MongoDB database resided in Codio from my last course, so my troubleshooting had to take place in Codio.  This added a dependency on Codio to get the work completed.  I had to work through some issues in the beginning of the RESTful API program wanting to close itself out.  I finally realized that logging out of Codio and then back in resolved that issue.  Another challenge with this program was the stopping and starting of the RESTful API.  Since the RESTful API is a program, I had to stop and start it anytime I made a change to the artifact.  I learned this through trial and error.  I have to say this was the most enjoyable of the 3 artifacts for me personally.  It brought in all three categories into 1 program.  It was also fun to manipulate the data with web-based commands.

## Project Link
[Enhancement Three Project](https://github.com/leeyates71/leeyates71.github.io/tree/master/_projectwork/mongodb){:target="_blank" .btn .btn--primary}
