---
permalink: /projects/artifact-1/
title: "Software Design and Engineering"
---

## Enhancement One Narrative

 This artifact is a Java based program written to run a slideshow.  The program opens a slideshow window on the desktop of a system.  The window is titled top 5 destinations and the user can move forward and backward through the slides with previous and next buttons.  Each slide contains the picture of a top 5 destination in the world, along with the name of the location and a short description.  The original artifact was created as an assignment in the CS-250 Software Development Lifecycle course.  It was created in September of 2018.
	I believe this artifact fits well in the software design / engineering category.  The artifact was created in a course dedicated to the software development lifecycle.  This artifact has a degree of difficulty prior to making modifications.  It uses JPanels, JLabels, and JButtons to open a window on the desktop which can be moved and manipulated.  I chose this artifact because I thought it showcased an interesting program.  It was one of the few programs that created a window on the desktop.  Almost all other programs ran within a console window in the IDE.  The manipulation of the slideshow with sections for pictures, text, and buttons showcased the skills and abilities associated with software development.  It required time and skill to get the different sections to fit together and display the intended way.  The improvements on the artifact were expanding the number of slides to 10, changing the title of the slideshow, adding more detail to the descriptions, changing the border colors, cleaning up the annotations and spacing in the code, adding a URL pointing to the travel site for each location, and increasing the size of the window to handle these changes without looking distorted or compressed.
	The original list of enhancements for this artifact were accomplished.  The course objectives were met by increasing the complexity of this artifact.  All items listed to update or modify were accomplished.  Changing the title of the slideshow, changing the border colors, cleaning up the annotation and spacing in the code, and increasing the size of the window were items modified but were not in the original enhancements.  These are items I modified to make the artifact a completer and more polished program.  Cleaning up the annotations and spacing in the code was added after doing the code review assignment.
	The process of enhancing and modifying the artifact was enjoyable while also challenging.  I learned to be a bit more tedious in adding annotations and creating the proper spacing to the code.  I found some of the sections to be easier to make my enhancements than others.  For instance, adding 5 new picture frames and changing the pictures for the original 5 was straightforward and easy to accomplish with little help.  On the other hand, adding the additional line item for the URL to the travel site and increasing the overall size of the window was challenging.  Modifying the sizes of the picture frames along with the text frames without overwriting the previous and next buttons took time to get right.  Another challenge was manipulating the text frame to add the URL to the bottom of the frame took time and a little research before getting it right.  I found the final product was nice and a fun project.
 
