---
permalink: /
title: "Home Page"
---

## Professional Self-Assessment

Working on my Computer Science degree at Southern New Hampshire University has been an exciting and fulfilling time for me.  When I first began my journey in the Computer Science program, 27 years ago, it was a different time for computers and their uses.  There wasn’t as much information available and the programming languages were not as friendly.  I have learned a lot over the last 2 years with the courses here.  The coursework was challenging but not so overbearing that it was impossible to complete or understand.  I enjoyed the pace of the courses and the material helped me understand what skills were needed to become a successful developer.  The wide range of courses and topics in the program helped add skillsets that could build upon other skillsets.

I have learned over the years the ability to collaborate between teams and team members is an important and valuable skill.  Effective collaboration can be the difference between project success and failure.  The course, CS-310 Collaboration and Team Project has prepared me to work in a team environment.  The use of branches of code in this course strengthened my ability to read other team member’s code and understand how those changes can affect a project.  It also helped me become a better conflict resolver since part of the focus in this course was to perform code reviews.

Communication with stakeholders is another valuable skill to have in the computer science field.  The ability to clearly communicate to the project team and stakeholders is a necessity for successful projects.  The courses, IT-201 Computer Platform Technologies and IT-340 Network & Telecom Mgmt have prepared me to communicate information back to stakeholders.  In IT-340, I acted as a consultant to gather information about a potential new office for a company.  I was given several potential sites with information about the available services at each.  I chose a site and wrote a recommendation to be read by the stakeholders of the company.  In IT-201, I again acted as a consultant to put together a proposal on a new office.  Both courses helped strengthen my ability to communicate effectively to a range of different audiences.  Understanding how to alter the information and communication mechanism is a key skill I learned in these courses.

Data structures and algorithms are a staple of most programs.  They are the building blocks for more advanced programming courses.  In CS-260 Data Structures and Algorithms, I learned how to manipulate data structures using algorithms.  I learned key skills, such as hash tables, vector sorting, linked lists, and search trees.  All these methods are key in creating fast, effective searches within data structures.  I was able to utilize the course material to gain the understanding of data structures and algorithms that I would later use in other courses.  Algorithms were a key component of at least one of my artifacts.

In CS-320 Software Test Automation and QA, I learned the importance of software engineering.  I learned the importance of proper and adequate testing of software.  It helped me understanding the methodology for engineering software that worked as expected.  It also exposed me to how inadequate testing can create major issues for programmers and companies selling code to the public.  Prior to this course, I had never performed any kind of code testing outside of the debugger function.  The course material strengthened my ability to ensure code is released with as few errors or flaws as possible.

Databases are the backend for many applications in the workplace.  I had a lot of exposure to databases throughout the courses while working on my degree.  In DAD-220, Introduction to SQL I was introduced to SQL queries and how to effectively write them against mysql.  I learned how to create SQL scripts and use them to specific data.  In DAD-334, Oracle SQL Fundamentals I expanded my SQL query learning to manipulate an Oracle database.  I further increased my knowledge of database use and manipulation in CS340 Client Server Development.  In this course, I learned to create Python scripts to manipulate a MongoDB.  This exposed me to another useful database and taught me to script out the create, read, update, and delete functions.

Security was not used as much as I had expected.  In IT-320 Network Security, I did focus on learning how to implement firewalls and how to test for vulnerabilities.  This course exposed me to tools that can be used to identify vulnerabilities.  It also gave me insight into how to perform key security needs in a company, such as network health, scans, and assessments.  I did use some of these security features in one of my artifacts.  This course strengthened my understanding of security needs in a program.

For this final project, I chose three programs I worked on in previous courses.  For Software Design / Engineering, I chose a Java based program written to run a slideshow.  The first version of this program was introduced in CS-250 Software Development Lifecycle.  It contained 5 popular vacation destinations in a slide show.  This program became my first artifact or enhancement.  For Algorithms and Data Structures, I chose a Java based program written to mimic a zoo authentication system.  The first version of this program was introduced in IT-145 Foundation in Application Development.  It contained 5 user accounts and 3 zoo roles.  This program became my second artifact or enhancement.  For Databases, I chose a Python based program written to manipulate a MongoDB.  The first version of this program was introduced in CS-340 Client Server Development.  It contained python scripts to perform create, read, update, and delete functions on a MongoDB.  It also introduced using a RestfulAPI to perform these functions.  This program became my third artifact or enhancement.  The courses taken throughout the Computer Science program taught me how to enhance and add additional functions to these programs.  Detailed information on the enhancements made on these programs can be viewed in the Project Work section of this site.  There is a link for each artifact on that page.
